my name is Vince I own about 10 acres
here in Bucky Louisiana and almost 10
acres I have about 33 pecan trees some
of the trees are over 100 years old when
I decided that I wanted to start
harvesting these pecans that they're
coming from these trees of course we
started out with just a hand picking we
used it just I don't know what you call
them but the stompers did you just pick
them up that way rollers everything we
could think of we couldn't afford the
big heavy industrial equipment that a
lot of the Pickers were using but we
wanted to collect the pecans ourselves
so we didn't want to hire somebody to do
it as well wasn't a lot of information
on out there about how to do this at a
low cost we finally found a bag of nut
which I have right here I'm going to
show you that my bag of that now is
about I guess about 10 years old what it
basically does is really neat effect it
rolls over the pecans the pecans go in
between the fingers right here and then
they come across in their role in these
baskets and that's the sense of what the
back of that does so you have to stop
periodically to get the pecans out of
the basket now one of the disadvantages
for the maginot that I found is he gets
a lot of leaves and trash that also get
caught up with the pecans so the cleaner
the ground is the better the pick will
be but of course as you see here we have
a lot of cream ground the grasses well
mowed not all of our area out here is
like that but I'm going to show you how
this works on the clean grass this bag
anut is just connected to the back of my
riding mower and that's what I use to
harvest my pecans so here is the demo
you can tell it takes a few times around
to get all the pecans up and there will
be a few left on the ground it's not
100% but I would say gets the majority
of the pecans up so I just basically
driving a circles around all my trees I
do run with the blade on this is to blow
any of the leaves and trash so it helps
keep the pecans a little cleaner as I'm
going around I keep mine up on its
highest setting to blow the trash out
and I lose a few pecans that way but
majority all in all I not not enough to
mash so now pick the pecans got them in
my hopper here behind my bagging up
basically the transport amount as I'm
thinking I just dump them into my
trailer standard trailer you can pick up
at any hardware store and that's where
they go as you can see there's a lot of
trash still we have sticks
we've got leaves we've got grass get
these little twigs constantly and then
when I bring them into the barn here at
one moment I'm going to show you how I
solved that you've already seen how I
collect pecans using my bag of nut one
of the pressing problems of the bag of
nut is that there are a lot of trash
leave stakes that caught up with the
pecans and go into the picker so when we
bring them in our born our biggest
problem is sorting the pecans out from
the trash and sticks so I'll show you
how I've devised the system to do okay
so you saw our they are harvested
because that I'm going out into my
trailer and brought them into my barn
and basically what I do just screw them
into five gallon buckets of course I
need to wear gloves when I'm doing that
because there's a lot of sticks and
trash you're looking here you'll see
we've got sticks at the pick ticker pick
we've got the dead holes we've got the
leaves grass all up in here and I take
it over to my shoot that I've developed
over here which is just sitting right
here and it's above a squirrel cage fan
and so we're going to show you this
segment of it which is just dumping it
into the chute and getting high
appreciate yelling trash poured out of
and everything so if pre-staged because
back here on the shoot and on a moment
I'm going to show you how this operates
we push the pecans to shoot into the -
this is our squirrel cage fan again
right here it's blowing up through the
to the trash leaves and extra sticks
will come out the top and any really
like pecans it really aren't any good
anyway that we don't want the heavier
stuff which is the good pecans and
occasionally some sticks and other stuff
will work its way through and come out
on here all this is is a treadmill we
had it later on the house weren't using
it probably should but we work anyway we
devised it to where it will slide the
pecans across and put it into the table
right here where we can do a little bit
more cleaning and I'm fixin to show you
that very large top of the shoot
machines rather we go
and the conveyor builder our treadmill
is on and what we're going to do here
pushing food secrecy out is actually
function if you notice up at the top of
the each you will see a lot of the
tracks lying up here we go
you
right now what I'm going to show you
here on the treadmill
to see how clean the cards look so you
kind of get out of here how that looks
now it does take an extra person on the
treadmill now on the end there to sorts
of sticks as they come through because
you will get some sticks through this to
get rid of almost all your lead and your
lighter stuff here we go take a look at
this car coming down there's our sorting
table right here that we've got at the
end of our treadmill or our conveyor
belt and as you see we didn't get all
the sticks out there's a few that didn't
blow out but we don't have any of the
grass or the trash in here hardly at all
we have a few whole pecans that have the
whole still on them that need to be
cleaned up a couple of crackers since
there's some stuff that gets through and
that's why you have somebody right here
on the end of the treadmill picking they
can sort you can have somebody right
here as well you even have somebody here
depending how many of you we have so by
no means is it a one-man operation but
it does speed up the operation a lot you
can look right here you know as we go
through the pecans are relatively clean
we've gone down to the end here and
we've made a board the reason we have
this diag
triangle right here as soon as we're
pushing the pecans they don't fly out
they go straight into our bag and then
we tie our bag them we prefer the
crawfish sex that you get down here in
Louisiana because they just light it
would carry the sort of reason some
people use the big burlap sacks but you
get a hundred pound sack you got a
little bit around 25 to 35 sex a lot
easier now if you look over here to the
right you'll see a lot of this tracks
this is what is coming out of the tubes
that we've been using these sticks we
get a lot of these these the leaves and
grass or come out we get black hole
because so all of this comes out and it
blows down here so you see we do get a
lot of the trash and we get it out and
that's pretty much our operation that's
how we have a setup and that's what
we're doing here down in bulky Louisiana
and we hope maybe you can use this
information and design a system and we'd
love to see your video of your system if
you do want to